1. What was your favorite course in high school? Why did you enjoy it so much?
2. Talk about an embarrassing situation that you had.
3. Explain a difficult decision that you had to make. Who helped you to make this decision?
4. Sometimes people experience an event that may change them in important ways. Describe an event which happened to you. How did it change you?
5. What is one thing that you have learned now that you wish you had learned when you were younger?
6. What is a difficult obstacle that you have had to overcome recently? Why was it so difficult to solve this problem?
7. What is your favorite holiday of the year? Why do you enjoy this holiday so much?
8. Many people look forward to summer. What is your favorite thing that you like to do during the summer? Explain why you like to do it so much.
9. What is the most important thing that you learned from your parents?  Explain how learning this has affected your life right now.
10. What is your favorite hobby that you like to participate in when you have free time? Explain why you like to do it so much.
11. Is the smartphone a useful tool for education?  Give examples to support your opinion.
12. Should society ban gasoline powered cars? Use some examples to support your argument.
13. Is group study better than individual study? Why or why not? Give examples to support your explanation.
14. Is it OK to tell a lie as long as it does not hurt anyone? Use examples and details to support your argument.
15. Is exercising more important than having a healthy diet? Why or why not? Give some reasons and examples to support your position.
16. Should most general education classes be omitted at universities?  Use some examples and reasons to support your opinion.
17. Should red meat be part of most people’s diet? Give reasons and examples to support your opinion.
18. Because of harmful emissions, should fossil-fuel powered automobiles be banned? Why or why not? Give reasons and examples to support your assertions.
19. Is it Ok to pay someone to write your college papers? Why or why not?  Give examples and reasons to support your ideas.
20.  Is solar power an effective alternative to fossil-fuel electricity? Present some examples to support your opinion.
21. Which of the following qualities is most important in a roommate? Honesty, respect, or cleanliness.
22. In your opinion who has the most influence on your life right now? Spouse, sibling, or parent.
23. Which human right is most valuable to you? Freedom of religion, the right to have free healthcare, or freedom of speech. Use examples and reasons to explain your choice.
24. Which natural disaster causes more damage to a city? A tornado, an earthquake, or a massive flood.
25. If you were stranded on a uninhabited lush island, which tool you would find most useful? A sharp knife, a firestick, or 10 meters of rope.
26. Which form of transportation do you find most useful in a large city? A car, a bus, or a subway.
27. Which invention has had more of an impact on people’s lives? The automobile, the computer, or the airplane.
28. What motivates employees to be more productive? Praise, monetary bonuses, or paid vacation time.
29.  Which job is most appealing to you? An airplane pilot, an accountant, or a teacher.
30. Which employee would you likely fire? One who often shows up late, one who complains a lot, or one who is lazy.
31. Your friend has a job interview tomorrow and is nervous. What advice would you give your friend to help him be calm?
32. Someone you know is preparing for an important biology exam. This exam requires a lot of memorization. What advice would you tell your friend so that he/she is well-prepared?
33. You have a friend from abroad who is coming to visit your city. What tourist attractions would you advise him to visit?
34. You have a sibling who is fat and wants to lose weight. What would you advise him/her to do to safely lose the extra pounds?
35. Someone you know doesn’t know what to major in.  What advice would you give him/her so that he/she can choose a career path?
36.  A friend you know needs to kick a roommate out of his apartment because your friend caught the roommate stealing. What advice would you give your friend in this situation?
37. You have a friend who wants to buy a gift for her boyfriend. However, your friend doesn’t know what to buy. What advice would you give her?
38. Your friend wants to ask his boss for a pay raise, but your friend doesn’t know how to do that. What advice would you give him?
39. Your friend is dating someone who smokes. However, your friend doesn’t like smokers. What advice would you give your friend.
40. Your friend is thinking of buying a new house. However, she is having trouble saving enough money for a down payment. What advice would you give her?
TASK 2: AGREE OR DISAGREE, PREFERENCE, IF / IMAGINARY, DESCRIPTION OR EXPLANATION, AND ADVANTAGE AND DISADVANTAGE
41. Studying in a group is better than studying alone. Do you agree or disagree with this statement?
42. Some say you should never let close friends borrow your car.  Do you agree or disagree with that statement?
43. Having a healthy economy is more important than environmental concerns. Do you agree or disagree with this statement?
44. Cell phones should not be used in restaurants, movie theaters, and museums.  Do you agree or disagree with this statement?
45. Some politicians argue that all people in a society should be given a living wage, even if some they are unwilling to work. Do you agree or disagree with this statement?
46. Being direct and completely honest in a conversation will help you to make more friends. Do you agree or disagree with this statement?
47. Your peers have more of an influence on you than your peers. Do you agree or disagree with this statement?
48. Lowering taxes is much better than raising them. Do you agree or disagree with this statement?
49.  You should never give advice to coworkers. Do you agree or disagree with this statement?
50. If you have gas, you should fart in public places as long as you do not let others know it was you. Do you agree or disagree with this idea?
51.  Some people prefer to buy used cars, while others like to purchase new ones. Which do you prefer and why?
52. Some students work during their education to pay for their tuition costs. In contrast, others students take loans instead. Which do you prefer? Give specific reasons and examples for your choice.
53. When having difficulty in class, some students will talk to other students in the class to get help. However, other students will talk to the professor about the course during his/her office hours. Which do you prefer and why? Give some examples and reasons to support your preference.
54. Some believe that drug dealers should get a lot of prison time, whereas others believe that they not go to jail at all. What position do you prefer and why?  Be sure to explain why.
55. Some people think politicians should serve indefinitely as long as voters keep electing them.  On the other hand, others believe that these political leaders should be limited to only two terms or no more than eight years. What position do you prefer? Give reasons and examples to support your choice.
56. Some people believe that you should not be honest if it hurts someone else’s feelings.  Other believe that you should be honest no matter what. Which belief do you prefer and why? Give examples and reasons to support your belief.
57. Some people believe we should stop drilling for oil. Others, however, think we should keep drilling for oil since it is so vital to our economy. Which belief do you prefer and why? Give some reasons and examples to support your point of view.
58. Some believe that poor people should be given a base income of money monthly to help them pay their bills. Other think that poor people should not become dependent on monthly governmental payments. Which position do you prefer?
59.  Some states in the United States have banned using hand-held phones while driving. Other states have not enacted laws restricting cell phone use while driving. Which opinion do you prefer and why? Use examples and reasons to support your point of view
60.  Some believe that marijuana and other recreational drugs should be legalized. Conversely, others believe that these drugs are harmful and should never be legalized. Which position do you prefer? Use some reasons and details to support your point of view.
61. Imagine that you won a sum of 10 million dollars in the lottery.  In addition, you were required to donate 1/2 of those winnings to either a local hospital or a school. Which one would you donate the money to and why?
62. If you had to make one change about your past, what would that change be? Explain how making that change would have affected your life.
63. If you were granted one wish right now in your life, what would you wish for and why? Be sure to use some examples and reasons to support your answer
64. If you had a chance to learn a new language other than your first language and other than English, what language would you like to learn? Why would you want to learn that language?
65. If you were a doctor and were given unlimited funding for research, which disease would you most likely work to find a cure.  Why would finding a cure for this disease be beneficial for society?
66. If you could make one change about your country, what change would you want your country to make. Why would making that change be important?
67. If you could eliminate one recent invention in our civilization, what invention would you get rid of? Why would you want to eliminate that invention?
68. If you could pick any profession in the world, what job would you most likely want to have? Why would having that job be important for you?
69. If you were an astronaut and had the power to visit one planet in our solar system, which planet would you want to visit? Why would visiting that planet be important to you?
70.  If you had to will power to get rid of one unhealthy food from your diet, which food would you eliminate?  Why would getting rid of that food make you more healthy?
71. Describe a person you know. Then explain why he/she is important to you.
72. What is a hobby that you like to do when you have free time? Explain why you enjoy this hobby so much.
73. What is an important skill that all students should learn before graduating from college. Explain why that skill is important in the workplace.
74. Describe a place you visited when you were younger. Explain a favorite memory you had while visiting that place.
75. What is an important skill for workers in the 21st century? Explain why learning that skill is so important.
76. Describe a place in your city that you would like tourists to visit. Then explain why these tourists should visit this place.
77. What is a difficult class you took when you were in high school? Explain why it was so hard for you.
78. Describe an activity that you like to do with your friends or family. Then explain why you like this activity so much.
79. Describe a main dish that you and your family enjoy.  Explain why you like eating this food so much.
80. What is a difficult obstacle or challenge that you have had to overcome? Explain why it was difficult and how  you overcame it.
81. Some people are making most of their friends online without ever meeting these individuals in person. What are the advantages and disadvantages of this type of social interaction?
82. The government wants to build a military near your community. What are the advantages and disadvantages of having a military facility near your neighborhood?
83. A professor has decided to let students grade the last oral presentation in his/her course. What are the advantages and disadvantages of having students, not the professor, grade each other?
84. A company wants to pay workers according to their productivity instead of paying them hourly. What are the advantages and disadvantages of doing this?
85. Some cultures encourage their residents to have parents arrange marriages for their children. What are the advantages and disadvantages of having arranged marriages?
86. Some tourists like to go on a vacation without a specific plan.  What are advantages and disadvantages of a spontaneous vacation?
87. Some consumers prefer to pay cash for everything they buy. What are advantages and disadvantages of avoiding the use of credit cards when purchasing new items?
88. Some say that people who sell drugs should not go to jail very long.  What are the advantages and disadvantagesof the early release from prisons of criminals who sell drugs?
89. Many political leaders want to increase taxes on the rich up to 70% of their annual income, especially those who are millionaires or billionaires. What are the advantages and disadvantages of taxing the ultra-rich?
90. Los Angeles is considering making drivers pay additional taxes based on how many miles they drive each year. What are advantages and disadvantages of this consideration?
91. New homes should be required to install solar panels on their roofs so that the new owners can get clean energy from the sun. What are advantages and disadvantages of having this new mandate?
92. Some believe that we should have a wall at the southern border of the United States in order to stop the flow of illegal immigration. What are the advantages and disadvantages of this policy?
93. The city council has notified you that officials plan to build an elementary school right outside of your neighborhood. What are the advantages and disadvantages of having an educational facility near where you live?
94.  Your city wants to install cameras in major intersections all throughout town. The cameras will be used to issue traffic citations when drivers go through red lights without stopping. What are the advantages and disadvantages of having these traffic cameras installed?
95. In order to decrease obesity, some believe that an extra tax should be placed on sugary beverages such as Coca Cola and Pepsi. What are the advantages and disadvantages of taxing these sugary drinks?
96. In many graduate programs, professor encourage the students to teach many of the classes. What are the advantages and disadvantages of having students lead the discussions?
97. Some believe that all residents in a community should be required to grow some of the vegetables and fruits that they eat. What are the advantages and disadvantages requiring residents to have gardens?
98. Some think that scientists and doctors should be able to use genetic engineering to help parents choose the hair color, eye color, and even the height of their children. In addition, genetic engineering, some claim, can eliminate hereditary diseases.  What are the advantages and disadvantages of genetic engineering?
99.  Some countries place cameras on major freeways so that officials can send speeding tickets to reckless drivers. What are the advantages and disadvantages of having these cameras on freeways?
100. Some couples decide to move in together before they decide to marry. What are advantages and disadvantagesof living with your boyfriend or girlfriend before marrying?
6. Which do you think is better: living on campus in dorms or living off campus in apartments? 
7. Which of the two do you prefer when exercising: running or riding a bicycle? 
8. Which of the following do you prefer: working for a small company or working for a big company? 
9. What time do you prefer to take classes: in the morning, afternoon, or evening? 
10. Which do you like: to travel or stay at home when taking a vacation? 
11. Your friend doesn't know what to study at the university, what would you advise him to do?
12. Do you think children should be given cell phones? 
13. Your friend is nervous because he will have a job interview, what would you tell him? 
14. Do you think it is easier to eat healthy food today? 
15. How have mobile phones changed our lives today in relation to some years ago? 
16. What are your strategies when you are busy with a lot of homework and assignments? 
17. Do you prefer living in the same place or do you like to move around a lot? 
18. What type of job do you like to do: a passive one like an accountant or an active one like a pilot? 
19. Which characteristic do you prefer in a friend: reliable, humorous or intelligent? 
20. Your friend is nervous because he will start a new job tomorrow, what would you advise him to do? 
21. Give two solutions that you think can help reduce air pollution. 
22. In which type of house would you prefer to live: in a old historical house or a new modern one? 
23. What would you like to change about the school system in your country? 
24. Some people prefer to listen to audio books. Others like to read printed books. Which do you prefer? Give reasons to explain your preference.
25. Talk about an important news event that happened recently in your country. Describe the event and explain why it was important.
26. Do you agree or disagree: your friends are the most important influence in your life? Use details and examples to explain your opinion.
27. Compare two schools you attended. Use details in your comparisons.
28. Do you agree or disagree: first year students should live in the dormitory separately from students who are in their second or third year. Give reasons to explain your opinion.
29. Talk about situation when you had difficulties. Who helped you to find the solution? Describe the situation and how it ended.
30. When a brand new device of modern technology (for example, a cell phone or a computer) comes out, should you buy it immediately or should you wait before you buy it? Give some reasons to support your opinion.
31.  Compare and contrast two musicians who influenced you. Give examples during your comparison.
32. What is better when preparing for an exam: studying alone or studying with a group? 
33. What is your favorite holiday of the year? Why? Give reasons for your choice. 
34.  What does your country's national anthem or flag mean to you? Using details, please explain. 
35. What is better in your opinion: face to face communication or other forms of communication such as e-mail or phone? Why? 
36. You have just returned home after a long journey. Talk about the person you have missed the most and why you have missed him/her. Include details and examples to support your response. 
37.  What do you think would improve the quality of life in your hometown more: reducing crime or improving the environment such as reducing pollution? Give reasons to support your position. 
38. When choosing a university, what is the most important thing a person should consider? Give reasons and details to support your response. 
39. What do you think is more interesting to you: listening to a popular singer at a concert or going to a comedy show? Give reasons and examples to support your response. 
40. What cultural element do you think is the most difficult for a visitor to learn when coming to your country? Use specific details and examples to support your explanation. 
41. You have received a 10 million dollar check from a recently deceased relative. You must donate 50% of the money either to a hospital or to a school in your hometown. Which organization would you donate the money to and why? Use reasons and examples to explain your choice. 
42. A friend of yours who is preparing to get married needs some advice. What is the important piece of advice you would give him/her? Using examples, explain why that piece of advice would be important. 
43.  Do you think humor, beauty, or honesty is the most important quality in choosing a spouse (husband or wife)? You must choose one. Give reasons and examples to support your choice. 
44.  What would your dream house look like? Use specific examples and details to support your explanation. 
45.  What is more important to you when buying a house: that you live close to where you work or that you live close to where your children or future children go to school?  Give reasons and examples to explain your choice. 
46. What is your favorite type of pet? Give specific reasons and examples to support your choice.
47. Describe your dream job. What will you have to do to get this type of job?  Give specific reasons and examples to support your response. 
48.  As a manager of a company, which type of employee would you MOST likely fire: one who cannot get along with other workers or one who constantly shows up for work late?  Use specific reasons and examples to support your choice. 
49.  Where do you go to have fun? Describe the place and explain why it is a fun place to visit. 
50.  Suppose you want to get away for the weekend to relax during the summertime. Would you rather stay at a hotel at the beach or in the mountains? Give reasons to support your choice. 
51.  What is your favorite national holiday in your country? Describe it and explain why it is so important. 
52. What is your favorite type of book or movie? Describe it and explain why it is important. 
53. Whom do you feel closer to in your family: your father or your mother? Describe this person and explain why you feel close to him/her. 
54. Which subject do you like to study the most at school? Describe it and explain why you like studying this subject. 
55. Is it more difficult for you to improve your speaking or your writing proficiency in academic English? Give reasons to support your choice. 
56. Who is an important person in your country? Describe the person and explain why he or she is important. 
57. In choosing between exercising and eating healthy foods, which one has a greater benefit in helping you to live a longer, healthier life? 
58. Talk about an interesting tourist attraction that you have visited. Explain why it was so interesting. 
59.  Which is more challenging: finding a good job or saving money to buy a nice house? Give reasons and examples to support your response. 
60. Name a person whom you admire. Why do you admire him/her so much? Use reasons and examples to support your response. 
61. What is your favorite type of food? Describe it and explain why you like to eat it so much. 
62. If you have to choose between walking or running, which would be your favorite form of exercise and why? Give specific reasons and examples to support your point of view. 
63.  What is the most important natural resource in your hometown and why?  Give reasons and examples to explain why that natural resource is more important than others. 
64. Would you rather attend an amusement park designed with fast-moving roller coasters or one with slow-moving rides designed for children?  Give reasons to support your point of view. 
65. Talk about a moment in your life in which you have had success. Describe the moment and explain why it was successful. 
66. If you got a large sum of money, would you rather save it for your future or would you want to spend the money right now? 
67. Name an influential figure who has inspired you. Describe the person and explain why he or she inspired you so much. 
68. Who do you think is a more important role model in society: religious or political figures? Why? 
69. Talk about an embarrassing situation that happened to you recently.  Describe the experience and explain why it was so embarrassing. 
70.  What is more difficult for you: meeting new people or giving formal oral presentations in front of a large group? 
71.  What is your favorite type of clothing? Describe the clothing and explain why you like to wear it so much. 
72.  What is more exciting to you when you have free time: hanging out with friends or being alone? 
73.  When have you been happily surprised by something? Describe the experience and explain why it was such as surprise to you. 
74.  Some prefer to give presents to others during special occasions. On the other hand, others like to receive gifts more. Which do you prefer and why? 
75. Describe a resource that has helped you to do something better than before. Describe it and explain why it was so helpful to you. 
76. When you have a lot of homework, do you prefer to complete the assignments in the library or at your apartment, dorm, or house? Why? 
77.  Compare two famous people from your country's history. 
78.  Suppose you have a difficult decision to make. Would you rather consult with someone else first or would you rather make the decision on your own? 
79. Discuss an activity that you and your family enjoy doing together. Describe the activity and explain why you and your family enjoy doing it so much. 
80. What do you enjoy doing more when you have free time: reading books or watching your favorite television programs? 
81.  Who is the most intelligent person you know?  Briefly describe the person and then explain why he/she is so intelligent. 
82. Name a place in your country that you would want others to visit. Describe the place and explain why you would recommend it to others. 
83.  When some read in a new language, they prefer to read out loud. Other learners prefer to read silently. Which do you prefer and why? 
84. What is your favorite way to getting around where you live? Explain why it is your favorite means of transportation. 
85. What would someone like and dislike about living in your hometown? Give reasons and examples to support your response. 
86.  Some people aspire to become police officers, whereas others prefer to become fire fighters. Which profession do you think is more valuable to society?  Give reasons and examples to support your choice. 
87. Talk about an uncomfortable situation in which things did not turn out as expected.  What could you have done differently that would have resulted in a different outcome? 
88. In some cultures, a couple who is planning on getting married will get engaged, which is a promise to get married. In these cultures, some prefer to have a longer engagement, perhaps one that lasts 1-2 years. On the other hand, others prefer to have a shorter engagement that lasts less than 6 months. Which do you think it better?  Why? 
89. Talk about an event in your past that you would like to relive. Describe the original event and explain you would like to relive it. 
90. Talk about a situation that made you angry. Describe the situation and explain why it made you so mad. 
91.  Talk about a personal choice that you could make that would help our natural environment.  Describe the choice how it could help preserve our natural environment for future generations. 
92.  You know an exciting secret about your best friend. Do you tell others about it or will you keep silent? Explain why you would or would not tell others about your friend's secret. 
93. Most residents want crime reduced in their cities. What is the most important factor that will help in significantly reducing crime in your city? Use examples and reasons to support your response. 
94. Some prefer to have dogs, whereas others prefer to have cats as pets. In your opinion, which is the better pet? Use specific reasons and examples to support your choice. 
95. Describe a choice that you have made that has had positive consequences on your life. Explain how it has affected you for the better. 
96. Suppose someone is observed cheating in a college class. Some students would immediately report the student's bad behavior to the professor. On the other hand, other students would say nothing to no one. How would you react if you observed this student cheating during an important exam? 
97.  Describe an important quality that someone must have in order to make more friends. Explain why that quality would be important in helping someone find more friends. 
98. Some claim that helping the poor is beneficial to them and to society. Others claim that helping the poor robs them of their self-reliance, making them a burden on society.  Which opinion do you agree with and why. 
99.  Describe a recreational activity that you enjoy doing. Explain why you like to do it so much. 
100.  Which type of friend is most irritating to you: one who complains a lot or one who says bad things about you behind your back? 
101. What change in your character have you had that was important in changing you from a child to an adult? Be sure to explain how/why this change has helped you to become an adult.
102. Which philosophy works better for a country's economy: one with high taxes or one with low taxes?  Give reasons and examples to support your choice.
103.  Suppose a magical genie grants you ONE wish. What one thing would you wish for? Explain why that one wish would be important in your life.
104.  Some think that it is OK to ask their boss for a raise in pay, while others think they should never ask that type of thing? Which opinion do you agree with and why? 
105.  Your life will become frozen in time, meaning that you will not age any more for the rest of your life. If that happened, what would be the perfect age for you? Why would you want to be that age for the rest of your life? 
106. In choosing between vacation times, would you rather vacation in the summer or in the winter? Use reasons and examples to support your response. 
107.  What is the most important consideration for you when choosing your vacation destination? Why? Use examples and reasons to support your response. 
108. When purchasing a house, some think the location of the house is the most important consideration. In contrast, others think the size of the house is the most important consideration. Which of these two opinions do you agree with and why? 
109.  What characteristic is most important in determining a person's academic success such as getting a high score on the TOEFL exam? Use reasons and details to support your response. 
110. Some say that those who throw trash on the ground should be given expensive fines so they do not repeat the behavior. Others argue that littering is a minor offense that should be punished with a verbal warning or a very small fine. Which opinion do you agree with and why? 
111. Talk about a difficult decision that you have had to make in your life.  Explain why it was difficult and how the decision affected your life. 
112.  Some people do not mind traveling for their work as long as they get paid well.  Despite the high pay, others prefer not to travel for their job. In fact, they would rather be paid less so they do not have to travel. Which opinion do you agree with and why? 
113. How has the Internet changed our lives in relation to years ago? Use reasons and examples to support your response. 
114. What do you think is a better quality in a friend: one who has great conversation skills or one who is a good listener? Use details and examples to support your choice. 
115.  Do you agree or disagree with the following statement: "Your parents are the most influential people in your life." Use reasons and examples to support your response. 
116. Your friend is having difficulties passing his math class. What do you advise him/her to do? Use reasons and examples in your response. 
117. Some students prefer to take essay exams. Others prefer to take multiple choice exams. Which do you prefer and why? 
118.  Describe an important accomplishment in your life. What steps did you have to complete before you were able to accomplish this goal? 
119. When some students complete their homework, they like to have distractions such as music or television in the background. Other students do not want any distractions, so they complete their assignments incomplete silence. Which do you prefer and why? 
120.  Compare two friends you know. Use reasons and examples in your response to show how the two friends are similar or different. 
121.  Some learners of a new language like to study at least 1-2 hours every day. Other learners prefer to study the new language 2-3 times a week for 2-3 hours each time. Which do you prefer and why? 
122.  Some people prefer to eat 1-2 large meals each day with no snacks in between, whereas other people prefer to eat 4-5 small meals with some snacks in between. Which form of eating do you prefer and why? 
123. What is one change you would like to make about your life this year? Why? Use reasons and examples to support your opinion. 
124. Someone once said: "Early to bed, early to rise makes a man healthy, wealthy, and wise." Do you agree or disagree with this statement?  Why? 
125. Before guests visit, some like to have their house clean and orderly. Others don't mind if the house if a little cluttered when visitors come. Which do you prefer? Use specific reasons and examples to support your choice. 
126. One of your best friends is offended by a remark that one of your family members made. In this situation, what would you advise your friend to do and why? 
127.  Nowadays, with the advent of Twitter, You Tube, and Face Book, people have more of an opportunity to keep in touch than ever before. In response to this, some people claim that these forms of social media are beneficial to society, whereas other people claim that these forms of social media have a negative impact. Which position do you agree with and why? 
128.   In your opinion, what is the most effective way to plan your vacation?  Use specific reasons and examples to support your explanation. 
129.  When going on vacation, some like to have to a tour guide plan their entire trip beforehand. In contrast, others do not like to use a tour guide at all. Which you prefer?  Give reasons and examples to support your response. 
130.  Some students like to make an outline of their writing assignment before they begin the first draft. Others prefer to write the first draft immediately without any planning at all. Which do you prefer and why? 
131. What is the best strategy for solving a difficult problem? Use examples and reasons in your explanation. 
132. Your friend has recently graduated from college and is looking for a job. What advice would you give him/her? Use reasons and examples to support your response. 
133.  You need to buy a present for a friend. Would you rather buy the present Online or would you rather go to a store in person to purchase the gift? Use reasons and examples to support your choice. 
134. Talk about a movie you liked or disliked and explain why. Give details and examples to support your decision. 
135. When faced with an emergency, some people take on the role of leader and others prefer to take on the role of followers. Which role do you prefer? Give details and examples to support your response 
136.  When you are nervous about something, how do you calm yourself? Use specific examples and reasons to support your response. 
137.  Some people say that when a child moves to a new country, he should only be taught in the native language of his new country. Others think that it is better to teach in a bilingual method to help the children adjust. Which method do you think is better? Use details and examples to support your opinion. 
138. There is a wildfire approaching your house and you must leave immediately. What is the most important material possession that you would take with you? Use examples and reasons to support your opinion. 
139.  Some people think that books and other methods of print are slowly being replaced by the Internet, TV, and other media. Others think that there will always be a need for printed material. What do you think and why? Give examples and details in your response. 
140.  You have a large sum of money you would like to give to someone else. Whom would you give the money to and why? Use examples and reasons to support your opinion. 
141.  Some college students like to take courses in a variety of subjects in order to have a broader education. Others only take courses in a central subject so they have a stronger understanding of their specific subject. Which method do you think is better and why? Use details and examples in your explanation. 
142. What is the most important classroom item a teacher can use for his/her students? Describe the item and explain why it would help a teacher teach her/his students more effectively. Use examples in your explanation. 
143. Describe a famous park or recreational area in your home country. Then explain why you enjoyed going there. Use examples and reasons in your response. 
144. What is the nicest thing you have ever done for someone? Describe what you did, whom it was for, and why you did it. Use specific reasons and examples in your explanation. 
145.  Some say it is OK to let a close friend borrow your car if she/he needs to buy groceries at a local market. In contrast, others say they will never allow close friends to borrow their cars. Which opinion do you agree with and why? Use specific reasons and examples to support your response. 
146. Describe an interesting neighbor you have had. Then explain what you have learned from him or her. Use examples and reasons to support your response. 
146. Describe your childhood home. Then retell a favorite memory you had of living there. Use examples and details in your response. 
147.  Some married couples choose to have children right away, while other couples prefer to wait a few years. Still, other couples prefer to have no children at all, ever. What do you think? Give reasons and examples to support your choice. 
148.  Describe a place you enjoying visiting at night in your hometown. Then explain why you enjoy going there at night. Use examples and reasons to support your response. 
149.  What is one change your hometown could make which would reduce its traffic congestion? Give examples and details in your response. 
150.  Some say the automobile has had an important impact on our society. Others claim that the computer has contributed more. Which invention do you think has had a greater effect on our society and why? 
151.  Compare your education as a child and as an adult. Use examples to support your comparisons. 
152.  In your free time, if you had to choose, would you rather go fishing or swimming? Use details and examples to support your response. 
153.  What contributions do doctors make to our society? Use specific examples and details to support your response. 
154.  If you had to choose, would you rather become a solider in the military or a police officer in your hometown? Use examples and reasons to support your response. 
155. Describe a teacher you had in the past. Then explain why he or she was important to you. 
Use details and examples.
156.  Some say that it is sometimes necessary to go to war against another country. On the other hand, others claim that war is never the correct course of action. What do you think? Use examples and details to support your response. 
157.  Describe a difficult class that you have taken. Then explain the most important thing you learned from taking that class. Use examples and details to support your response. 
158. What is your strategy for preparing for a difficult exam, especially one that requires a lot of memorization? Use details and examples in your explanation. 
159.  Describe the proudest moment of your life? Why was it so important to you? Use reasons and examples to support your response. 
160. When seeking advice, some say it is most important to talk to your parents. Conversely, others claim that you should consult close friends. Which opinion do you agree with more and why? 
161. Describe a situation that you wish had never happened. Explain why you regret that it happened. Use examples and details in your response. 
162. Some people prefer to rent a house, whereas others prefer to purchase the home in which they live. What do you think it is better choice and why? 
163. Describe an important materialistic possession that you lost.  Why was it important to you? 
164.  Describe a recent natural disaster in your country.  Then explain how well or poorly you think your country reacted to the situation. Use specific details and examples in your response. 
165. Some people want to live to a very old age, even to 100 years old. Others would rather die at a younger age, perhaps around 75 or 80. What do you prefer? Give reasons and examples to support your choice. 
166.  Nowadays, people are living longer than ever before. Discuss the causes of this phenomenon. Use details and examples in your response. 
167.  Describe a favorite meal that you like to prepare. Why do you like to prepare it so much? Use examples and reasons to support your explanation. 
168. Describe a recent problem in your family. How did the situation get resolved? Use examples and reasons to support your response. 
169.  Which situation do you think is better for children: a two-parent or single-parent family? Use details and explanations to support your preference. 
170. Describe the most dangerous thing you have ever done. Why did you do it? Use reasons and examples to explain your response. 
171.  Some claim that the most important consideration for a home is how it looks on the outside. However, others claim that the most important thing is how the home looks on the inside. What do you think?  Be sure to use examples and reasons to support your choice. 
172.  Suppose that you had enough money to donate 10 million dollars to your city.  What would you require the city to spend the money on and why? Use reasons and examples to support your response. 
173.   What do you think makes a bigger impression when you meet someone for the first time: your looks or your speech?  Use examples and details to support your choice. 
174.  Recently, marijuana has been legalized in several states in the United States? Do you think this is a good idea? Why or why not? Give reasons and examples to support your argument. 
175.  Some say smoking is a deal breaker when it comes to relationships. On the other hand, others claim that drinking alcohol is an even worse bad habit to have in a relationship. What do you think? Use examples and reasons to support your response. 
176. Some say same-sex married couples can raise children just as effectively as different- sex married couples. On the other hand, others claim that children should only be raised by different-sex married couples. Which opinion do you agree with more and why? Use examples and reasons to support your argument. 
177. Describe the most unusual vacation you have ever gone on. What makes it so different from other trips you have taken? Use examples and details to support your explanation. 
178.  Some say that, as long there are no financial difficulties, a woman's primary role should be to raise children and not work. Others disagree by saying that it is perfectly acceptable for a woman to have children and work at the same time. What do you think and why? 
179. What important quality do you think is often overlooked when someone is choosing a spouse for marriage? Explain why so many forget to consider this quality and why it is so important to the success of a marriage. 
180.  You are short of money, but you need to buy some food at the grocery store. Additionally, you are limited to buying either chicken or cow meat. Which food will you buy and why? Use reasons and examples to explain your response. 
181.  Although there is no cure for the common cold, what can you do to recover faster from the dreaded illness? Give specific examples and reasons to support your response. 
182. Which has a more negative impact on children's lives: eating too many high-fat foods or watching too much television? Give specific reasons and examples to support your choice. 
183.  What is the most difficult aspect of learning a new language and why? Use examples and details to explain your response. 
184.  Some say that badly-behaving children should sometimes be punished by spanking. Others disagree by saying that verbal punishment, not spanking, should be used to correct the wayward behavior. What form of punishment is most appropriate and why?
185. What is the most harmful thing a person can do to his/her health? Why is it so harmful?  Give reasons and examples to support your point of view. 
186. Which resource should a city spend more money on: making sure that the air is clean or ensuring that the drinking water is free of contaminants?  Give reasons and examples to support your choice. 
187.  You are starting your own business. What is the most important thing you should do that will help your business to succeed? Give reasons and examples to support your response. 
188.   What is culturally more inappropriate in your country: burping or farting at the dinner table? Use details and examples in your response. 
189. Describe a recently deceased person in your family. Then explain why he/she was so important. Use details and examples to explain your answer. 
190. What do you think is more important in a long-term relationship: sexual attraction or compatibility? Why? Use reasons and examples to support your choice. 
191.  Should actors be paid millions of dollars when they are cast in movies? Why or why not? Use specific details and examples to support your response. 
192.  Some say politicians should only be allowed to run for one election cycle. Others argue that politicians should have no limits on how many terms they have in office. Which position do you agree with and why? 
193. Do you think it is a good idea to borrow money from friends? Why or why not? Use specific reasons and examples to support your response. 
194.   Some say that women should be allowed to be combat soldiers in the military. Others believe that they should not be allowed to be combat soldiers in the military. Which opinion do you agree with most and why? Be sure to use examples and details to support your point of view. 
195. Talk about a memorable birthday you have had.  Describe the event and why it was so memorable. Use specific reasons and examples to support your point of view. 
196. What would you do if you got lost in an unfamiliar city? Be sure to use examples and details to support your response. 
197.  Many believe that violence on television can have a negative effect on today's children. On the other hand, others believe that violence on television has no adverse effects on children's behaviors. Which opinion do you support? Give reasons and examples to support your point of view. 
198. Talk about a time when you accidentally caused trouble for someone else. Describe what you did and how you tried to correct the problem. 
199.  What is one thing you could do to encourage people you know to recycle more?  Describe your proposal and explain why it could encourage others to recycle. 
200.  Some say you should notify your friends before you go over to visit. Others claim that it is acceptable to visit your friends unannounced. Which position do you agree with more and why? 
201.  What will you do if your friend offends you? Be sure to use specific examples and details to explain how you would react.
202.   When buying an expensive item, do you try to get a discount or are you ok with paying full price? Be sure to use specific examples and details to support your choice. 
203.  How do you discipline an unruly child? Describe the unacceptable behavior and what steps you would take to discipline the child. Use details to illustrate your response. 
204.  Do you prefer going to a noisy restaurant with a lot of people or a quiet one with hardly any people at all? Provide examples and details to support your preference. 
205.  In which season do you enjoy recreational activities the most: fall, winter, spring, or summer? Be sure to use examples and details to support your choice. 
206.  Describe an exciting sports event you attended? Why did you enjoy the event so much? Use reasons and examples to support your response. 
207. During the gift giving times of the year, some want to know in advance what gifts their close friends or spouses are getting them. In contrast, other people like to be surprised when they get gifts from their significant others.  Which do you prefer and why? Be sure to use examples and details in your response. 
208. Describe a memorable gift you received in the past. What special memories do you have of this gift? Use examples and details to support your response. 
209. Would you rather buy a 3 bedroom house with a pool or a 4 bedroom house with no pool? Use examples and details to support your explanation. 
209. Using telling details, describe your dream house. 
210. If you could change one historical event in your country, what would it be?  Describe the event and why you would want to change it? Be sure to use examples and reasons to support you point of view. 
211.  Describe your favorite type of music. Why do you enjoy listening to it so much? Use specific details and examples in your response. 
212. Describe the most important quality for a college student. Use specific details and examples in your response. 
213. Your friend is unsure about buying a gas and battery hybrid vehicle or a regular gas vehicle. What would you advise your friend to purchase? Why? 
214. Some people believe that exercising in the morning is best. On the other hand, other people say that exercising in the evening is more beneficial. Which do opinion do you agree with and why? 
215. Which do you think is better: living in a vibrant, exciting city in a small apartment or living in a large 5 bedroom house with a lot of land in a small quiet town? 
216. Compare and contrast the advantages of going to college in your hometown with the advantages of leaving to another city for college. Use details in your comparison. 
217. In some cultures, it is perfectly acceptable to socialize, drink, and have dinner with your boss. Conversely, in other cultures, socializing with a boss or superior is forbidden. Which do you agree with and why? 
218. Your friend has to decide between a talking parrot and or a tortoise. Which pet would you advise her to choose and why? 
219. In recent years, states like California and New York have passed laws that require restaurants to show calorie counts for each item on their menu. Do you agree or disagree with restaurants having to show the number of calories in each dish? Why? 
220. Describe your dream vacation weekend. Where would you go? What would you do? Use specific details and examples in your response. 
221. Your friend is planning to move to another country to attend college. What advice would you give him/her in order to have a smooth transition? 
222. Because of the hectic, fast-pace life of many families around the world, some families do not sit down and eat dinner together. Do you think it is important to sit down and eat as a family or do you think that sitting down and eating as a family is an old tradition? 
223. What would you like to change about the current practices of people working in your field or corporations in your field? Use specific details and answers in your response. 
224. What is your favorite movie, song, book, or poem? Choose one and explain how it has affected your life. 
225. Talk about a time when you really helped a person in need. Describe what you did, whom it was for, and why you did it. Use specific details and examples in your response. 
226. It has been said, “It is better to give than to receive.” Do you agree or disagree with this statement and why? 
227. With the advent of the iPad and other template devices, many parents purchase these devices for their children, so they can use it for school or for fun. In your opinion, what is an appropriate age for children to have such devices? 
228. Your friend that you met in an internet social network is finally going to visit you in your city. What advice would you give him/her before he/she visits your city? 
229. There has been a lot of bickering and quarreling among your co-workers. Your boss has asked you for help with the matter. What steps would you suggest to help bring unity to your fellow co-workers? 
230. Your friend wants to be more adventurous to try an activity that will get his/her adrenaline rushing. What activity would you suggest and why? 
231. Community colleges are smaller, much cheaper, and do not provide as much social or extra- curricular activities. On the other hand, state schools are much more expensive, but provide plenty of social and academic activities. If you were a student and had to choose, which school would you choose and why? 
232.  Which do you prefer: taking online courses or going to a classroom with the teacher and other students?  Use specific examples and details. 
233. A college graduate who went to school for four years should get the same benefits as a person who served four years in the military. Do you agree or disagree with this idea and why? 
234. Your college chancellor wants to make digital copies of each book in the library in order to save money. However, all libraries on you college campus will be closed, and you will no longer have access to physical copies of books. Do you think it is more important to save money or keep the libraries? 
235. What are the advantages and disadvantages of being in a large lecture hall with one hundred students for a required class? Use specific details and examples in your response. 
236. Which is a more fair grading system which reflects students’ knowledge of the subject matter in a course: objective multiple choice exams or subjective essay exams? Give reasons and details to support your choice. 
237. What is the biggest academic mistake you have ever made? Describe the mistake and what  you learned from it? Use specific details and examples in your response. 
238. Some people will only buy name brand products which are usually more popular than expensive brands, while others will buy the generic product of the same name brand at a much cheaper price. In your opinion, is there a difference between name brand and generic products? Explain why or why not. 
239. Which career lifestyle would you choose: a smaller salary with a lot of time to spend with your family or a larger salary with very limited time with your family? Use specific details and examples in your response. 
240. Your friend has an important career decision to make. He/she is deciding whether or not to work out of his/her home or take an office in the corporate building. What would you advise your friend to do and why? 
241. Are you an adventurous eater or do you prefer to go to the same restaurant and eat the same dish every time? Why? 
242. Your country continually sends money to other countries which have had environmental disasters such as earthquakes, tsunamis, and hurricanes. In your opinion, should your country continue or stop sending money to countries? 
243. Your friend has been invited to a family vacation with his wife’s parents for seven days. The problem is that your friend does not get along with his wife’s parents. What advice would you give your friend? 
244. In your opinion, if a computer is required for the course, do you think that public schools should provide computers for students or should parents have to purchase the computer? Use specific details and examples in your response. 
245. Your son/daughter wants to attend nursing school. One school requires one year for completion but is double the price. The other school is much less but requires four years to complete. What would the pros and cons be of each school? 
246. Compare the differences between a vacation in the mountains during the summer and during the winter. 
247. In some cultures, students are in all-women or all-men classes, while in other cultures have women and men in the same classes. Compare the advantages of both types of classrooms. Use specific details in your response. 
248. Your principal is trying to decide whether or not to completely ban all cell phones in the classroom because of the continuing issues teachers are having. Students are not paying attention and are continually on their cell phones. What course of action or solution would you advise? 
249. Social networks like Facebook and MySpace have pictures and a lot of information about users on their home page. If you were a parent, what would be the appropriate age that you would allow your son/daughter to join a social network? Why? 
250. Describe a wonderful experience that you shared with a family member, friend, or group. Choose one and explain why the experience was important or what you learned. 
251. Your friend wants to lose weight by the beginning of the summer season. What advice would you give your friend who wants to shed some unwanted pounds? 
252. There are 24 hours in a day. As a student, what steps during the day do you take to ensure that you have adequate time to study? 
253. Some people prefer to shop in bulk or go to warehouses that offer cheaper prices, but have the added monthly charge. Others prefer to shop at a traditional store that does not offer a big discount, but customers do not have the added monthly charge. Which is a better choice and why? 
254. Compare two of your favorite books, movies, or poems. Choose one and use specific examples and details in your response. 
255. Some people believe that life should be lived in the moment, and tomorrow is not guaranteed. Others believe that planning a future and focusing on tomorrow is a better approach to life. Which do you agree with and why? 
256. Your friend is having anxiety and stress at night before taking all of his/her tests. What would you suggest to your friend to do that could alleviate his/her anxiety the night before tests? 
257. It can now be argued that video games have surpassed television in terms of children taking time out of their days to play, sometimes playing hours at a time. How many hours a day is a sufficient amount of time for children to play video games? Why? 
258. You have been invited to a celebration dinner for your friend. As the food is coming out, you notice that the only dish is meat, and you do not eat meat because you are a vegetarian (no meat in your diet). How would you tell your friend that you do not eat meat without being offensive? Use specific examples and details in your response. 
259. Your apartment complex is going to be torn down because they are building a new sports stadium in the area. The builder is going to compensate you with a large sum of money for your move. What would be the best way to spend the money? 
260. You own a business and your best friend wants to know if you can hire his cousin. Some people advise against mixing business with friendship. Would you hire your friend’s cousin? Use examples and details in your response. 
261. In the United States, there is a holiday called “Black Friday”. This day is one of the biggest shopping days of the year because retailers significantly reduce prices on televisions, phones, and other products. However, there are long lines and occasional riots in certain stores. Are long lines and pushy people worth the savings or do you think it is better to shop during other sales? 
262. Your friend has just finished graduate school and is thinking about pursuing a Ph.D. In your country, the economy is not great, and your friend does not have a job yet. Would you advise your friend to pursue the highest degree or would you advise your friend to find a job in his/her field? 
263. You have been invited to speak about the traditions and customs of your culture at your local high school. What steps would you take in order to prepare for the speech? 
264. Some parents believe that technology is very important to their child’s education. Conversely, other parents believe that textbooks and the instructor is all that is needed for their child. Which parents do you agree with and why? 
265. You have a four-day vacation planned. You can drive and save money, but your destination is six hours away. On the other hand, you can take a plane and spend a lot more money, but you will arrive to your destination in one hour. Which mode of transportation would you choose for your vacation? 
266. Compare and contrast two cities that you have visited. Use specific examples and details in your response. 
267. Many people say that we should eat “healthy”. In your opinion, what do you consider a healthy diet and why? 
268. Some people run, play sports, or lift weights. What is the best form of exercise in your opinion? 
269. Your first day of school is tomorrow. What materials and supplies are necessary for the first day of class and why? 
270. There are two instructor options for your final class. One instructor is strict, gives a lot of homework, and expects a lot from students. The other instructor is not as strict and does not give as many assignments. Which instructor would you choose for your final class and why? 
271. There are websites that have summaries and outlines of books. Your instructor has assigned four books to read for the quarter. In your opinion, is it acceptable to use said websites instead of buying the book or would you purchase the book and not use the website? 
272. Describe a difficult relationship in your life with your family, friend, or spouse. Choose one and explain how the difficult relationship had affected your life. 
273. Do you agree or disagree with this statement: “You should have a college degree in Business before you open a business”? Why or why not? 
274. Your friend is unsure about what to wear for an important corporate interview in the morning. What is the proper attire for the interview and why? 
275. If you had to choose a role model for your son/daughter to follow, who would it be and why? 
276. Some people carry and believe in lucky charms like a rabbit’s foot. Do you think that charms work for good luck? Why or why not? 
277. Your instructor has made a mistake in correcting your final exam. Classes have ended and grades will be submitted by the following week. What steps would you take to ensure that your instructor changes the grade? 
278. There is a saying: “Hindsight is 20/20” which basically means when you look back at mistakes it is easy to see what you did wrong. What mistake did you make in the past, what did you learn from it, and how do you make sure that you never repeat it again? 
279. You are studying in the library, and there are a couple of students speaking loudly. Describe what you would do in this situation. 
280. You have been granted a bonus from your job that will finally allow you to buy a cell phone. What kind of cell phone would you shop for and why? 
281. How much of an influence should parents have in deciding where their children should attend college? Use specific examples and details in your response. 
282. Your friend has finally earned the promotion that he/she has been working a year towards. How would you celebrate? Use specific examples and details in your response. 
283. A steel worker has worked for a company for twenty years. On the other hand, a recent graduate with no experience but with a wealth of book knowledge has recently been hired. Compare the advantages of employees. 
284. Your friend depends on caffeine every day for school and work. In your opinion, should your friend drink coffee or tea for caffeine? 
285. Describe your ideal family. Use specific examples and details in your response. 
286. Fasting can be a religious act or can work as a way to refrain from specific foods or vices. In your opinion, does fasting have health benefits? Why or why not? 
287. Some instructors group student together while other instructors never put students into groups in class. Which method do you think is more beneficial for learning and why? 
288. If many countries in the world were thinking about changing to one currency, would you agree or disagree with this move? Why? 
289. There are many types of energy sources like wind, solar, and coal. Which form of energy do you prefer and why? 
290. In the United States, pets are considered part of the family and many times owners allow the pets to sleep in the house. Do you agree or disagree with this practice and why? 
291. What is your favorite way to relax after a hard day at work or school? Use specific examples and details in your response. 
292. Some English composition instructors have their students write four to six papers per quarter for a grade while other instructors have one final paper for the final grade. Which method do you prefer and why? 
293. Compare the advantages of being at a library for research with the advantages of having access to website search engines for information. Use specific examples and details in your response. 
294. Your friend is thinking about earning a double major degree which would keep him/her at the college for another year and cost more money. What advice would you offer to your friend? 
295. In the United States, we use the term “staycation” to describe a vacation that is spent in a local town or local area. What activities would you suggest to a person who is going to have a “staycation” in your city or local area? 
296. Some people prefer going to the beach for a summer day. Others prefer to go to the lake on a summer day. Compare the advantages of both. Use specific details and explanations in your response. 
297. If you had to choose one dish to define your culture, what would the dish be? Describe the dish and use specific examples and details in your response. 
298. You have been notified that all the students in your class have to take the final exam again because the test was compromised by a cheating student. You only have one day to study. What steps would you take to prepare for the exam? 
299. What has been the biggest difficulty in your pursuit to learn and study academic English? Use specific examples and details in your response. 
300. Compare your study habits as a child or teenager with your study habits as an adult. Use specific examples and details in your response. 
301. Would you rather read a book or go to a movie when you have some spare time to enjoy yourself? Use specific reasons and examples to support your choice.